From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number three 36 recorded live
Thursday, September 6th, 2012. This episode is
brought to you by Tellerik
offering the best in developer
tools and support online@telprikdotcomandbyfranklins.net training
developers to work smarter and
now offering gesture pack a
powerful gesture, recording and recognition
system for Microsoft connect for
windows developers details@gesturepak.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with bill
Steele about his three D
printing Kickstarter, the ultra bot.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And today I'm
talking to William steel, bill
Steele, creator of the ultra
bought a modification of a
popular three D printer. How's
it going, bill? I'm very
good. So I'm starting to
think about three D printing.
I've talked to Pete Brown
about this a couple of
times the kids are always
breaking toys and plastic stuff.
So I've got this idea
that I'll just put my
three D printer next to
my inkjet printer. And when,
you know, GI Joe loses
an arm, I will just
print out a new GI
Joe arm. How close is
that to being real Actually,
that's exactly what I do
already for my granddaughter. You
know, she has, I'll come
up with a little toy,
draw it in Google SketchUp
or something like that, and
just send it right to
the printer and, and make
it, you know, an hour
later she has the part
or the toy. Really? That
is crazy. That is amazing.
Okay. Well, let's start at
the basics then. So three
D printers kind of got
there. They're kicking the butt
when a thing called the
MakerBot cupcake came out and
you talk about that and
why did that change things?
Yeah. Prior to that, prior
to the open source community
effort around three D printing
three D printing was left
for big manufacturers with lots
and lots of money that
was, you know, starting in
the early eighties. And those
machines were really, really expensive
and the parts they produced
really weren't, you know, the,
you couldn't use them for
anything. And then several years
ago, I believe in 2005,
2006 timeframe, a gentlemen over
in England named Adrian Boyer
developed a machine called the
rep rap, which was an
open source three D printer
designed to self replicate, designed
to be able to produce
its own parts, to, to,
you know, allow a new,
new type of economy. If
you will, where, where we
don't have a supply chain,
we simply have a, a,
a machine that produces the
parts and locally, and he
thought about it and he
thought it would be really
neat to have a, a
device that was able to
self replicate much the same
way that the, a plant
and a, you know, an
animal have a symbiotic relationship.
He thought maybe a human
and a printer could have
a symbiotic relationship where one
supplies, the other one material
and there, and, you know,
that allows one to reproduce.
And then the benefit is
it also allows it to
be used for other things,
you know, creating blown, knickknacks
and toys and whatnot. And
that first product that he
produced was called Darwin. And
right about that same time
I, a group of guys
up in New York city got
together and they decided that
they wanted to use a
laser cutter to make a
three D printer. And they
designed a machine around the
original Darwin that they called
the MakerBot and their first
product was called the cupcake.
And the cupcake was given
its names simply because one
of the, one of the
guys on the team actually
liked to cook. And he,
he realized that, that this
3d machine could be used
to actually decorate a small
cupcake and the machine could
actually make a part about
the size of the cupcake
as well. And that, that
actually led, you know, into
a product that he called
the MakerBot cupcake, which was
the first, you know, really
mass produced three D printed
that you could just go
by. And when I say
mass produced, it was actually
low volumes. They probably sold
3000 of them total, but
they, they were kits and,
you know, hobbyists like myself
purchased them. And, you know,
we built them and played
with them for years. And,
and I, during the playing
of them, I realized that
there was a, a need
to improve it specifically for
my own use. So I
thought about redesigning some of
the components and redesigning, you
know, the, the, the way
the whole unit kind of
worked to better suit my
needs. And that's, that's kinda
what led me down the
path today, where I am
with the ultra bot. So
the, the MakerBots, the originals,
they were made of wood,
right? Yeah. Yep. The, they
actually, the original Darwin was
actually made out of threaded
robs and plastic parts that
could be printed on another
printer. You know, you went
to the hardware store and
you bought a whole lot
of parts. And then the
MakerBot guys, you know, they
had their laser cutter and
they thought, wow, we could,
we could really speed up
the process of manufacturing these
things if we use laser
cut parts. So that's what
they did. They, they used
a nice Birch plywood that,
that actually made, you know,
made it really easy to
assemble the printer, kind of
like Ikea furniture set up,
you know, building them became,
you know, instead of being
a month or two long
process, I got it down
to four or five days,
you know, you could, you
could easily build one of
these printers. And the, that
was actually one of the
things that I changed in
the design. I, I really
liked the idea of laser
cutting, but I really didn't
like the idea of having
a wood chassis. Cause it's
first off, it's a wood
chassis. It looks like a
wood chassis. It acts like
a wood chassis. It, it
creaks in it it's fragile
and it's, you know, you
don't want to get it
wet for example. So I
redesigned the case in acrylics.
So my case is pure,
clear acrylic. You know, it's
actually quite nice looking when
you look at it, it,
it, I get all kinds
of compliments because of the
way the machine looks. It
actually lets the little kids
actually see what's going on.
You know? And when somebody
comes up to look at
the printer, they can see
all the moving parts inside
of it, you know, all,
all the gears and the
police and the belts and
the motors and you know,
everything going on inside of
it. And that lets them
open their mind up a
little bit and say, wow,
this is kind of neat.
So fundamentally, how does this
work? I mean, I think
that we all understand, or
at least I understand how
an inkjet printer works. You
know, you've got this ink
in a, in a cartridge
and that ink then gets
dripped out onto the page.
And I assume that there's
some heat and some electrical
stuff going on. How, how
can I print something in
3d? What is my, what
is my ink? Ah, that's
a great question. The ink
is actually plastic and we
use, what's a welding wire,
basically. It's just a, a
1.7, five millimeter or a
three millimeter filament of wire,
a plastic wire. And what
we do is we, we
very much like a ice
cream, a soft serve ice
cream machine or a hot
glue gun. We extrude that
plastic out. Now, the way
we extruded is we drive
that through a tube, into
a hot end, you know,
a heated nozzle. And then
we simply move the nozzle
over our build surface. So
just like I was building
an ice cream cone, if
I would, I would turn
the novel on to start
extruding the soft serve ice
cream, I would place the
cone under it and move
the cone around to give
it the shape, you know,
the spiral shape of the
actual ice cream cone. And
then when I got to
the top of it, I
just shut the ice cream
maker off and that stops
the extrusion. And when I'm
done, I'm left with a
cone shaped ice cream treat.
We do the exact same
thing with the plastic. We
move, move the, well, the
MakerBot actually move the part
underneath the extruder. My new
design actually moves the extruder
overnight over there parts. So
it's a much smaller piece
moving around, which gives me
a much larger build area.
But I basically just melt
the plastic and kind of
just like you said, dribble
it onto a surface that
that's designed to catch that
plastic. And then the next
time, when I, when I
draw the very first layer
I get done, I move
the extruder up just to
shade, you know, just a
fraction of a millimeter. And
then I draw again and
then I move it up
again. And then I draw
again and I keep doing
that until I get, you
know, 100 to 200 layers
later, the part actually made
in three dimensions. Okay. So
let me see if I
get my head around this
because we are doing an
audio podcast and not video,
although people can certainly go
and see video of this
happening@ultra-bot.com. So the original MakerBot
had a, had a plate
and by plate it's just
literally a square that you're
going to print onto. And,
and it had the extruder
is the, the nozzle, the,
the thing that makes the
kind of the design as
if you were making a
drawing on top of a
cake and the original maker
about would move the plate
or the nozzle. Yeah. It
would move the plate. It
would move the whole cake
around The entire thing. You're
printing underneath a fixed nozzle,
Right? Yeah. Mine is moving
the novel over the top
of the cake. And then
which makes it, the novel
is much smaller than the
cake is so I can
move it much further, which
allows me to create a
park. Well, in reality, the
ultra bod can actually produce
a part about six times
the volume of the original
MakerBot in the exact same
size chassis. It literally is
the exact same chassis. In
fact, I use all of
the, all of the major
components from the original MakerBot
cupcake can actually be moved
into an ultra bot. That's
one of the upgrades that
we did is, you know,
for all those 3000 MakerBot
owners out there, they can
actually upgrade their unit to
ultra box simply by buying
a new chassis and you
know, a couple other minor
components. They can use their
re utilize their nozzle, their,
their, their drive system, all
the motors, the electronics, everything
just ports right over to
the ultra ball. Why, why
wouldn't why isn't this obvious.
I mean, it seems obvious.
And as with all good
ideas after the fact, do
you think, wow, that was
obvious. What, why would they
make that decision to move
the entire object underneath the
fixed a limitation? They actually
had a very good reasoning
for it. When they, when
they designed the cupcake, they
actually had a couple of
restrictions that they had to
deal with. One of them
was that the, some of
the technology that I'm using
hadn't been invented yet, for
example, they needed to have
the extruder drive mechanism on
top of the extruder. Nobody
had developed what we call
the boat in the style
extruder, which has the drive
motor motor separate from the
actual hot end of it.
There's minor separated by about
two and a half feet
of silicone tubing. Now, what
it actually did was they
realized that with their system
and extruder packaged together, that
weighed about 1.6 pounds. So
they actually realized in their
design that their parts, because
they are limited to four
inches, it was a lot
easier to move the part
than it would be to
move the extruder. But then,
you know, the three D
printer technology has evolved and
there's been a lot more
input on it. Let's put
it that way. And there's
been a lot new, a
lot of new ideas that
have been, you know, applied
to three D printing that
I simply applied to their
old design. So I kind
of removed some of the
constraints that they had with
newer technology. So the extruder
is the, is the fundamental,
like, that's the thing that
could be most improved when
one is, is doing this.
Just like there was a
time when inkjet printers would
do like 150 DPI and
then 300 and then 600
and now 1200. And it
was all a nozzle based
stuff. It wasn't the moving
around of the paper. It
was the improvements in the
nozzle, Right? Yeah. The a,
that's actually one of the
other technologies that we've done
when they originally designed their
printer, it was designed for
three millimeter filament and their,
the extrusion technology hadn't been
fully developed yet. So they
had a half a millimeter,
basically a resolution, if you
will. And that, because they
were using a half a
millimeter novel and they, the
temperature controllers and everything, you
know, hadn't been fully realized
that we have today in
my design, there was a
threat. There was another reason
for that too. And that's
the electronic controllers. And the
motors were at the time
set up to drive stepper
motors, one full step at
a time. And the electronics
that do the call 16th
stepping hadn't been developed yet.
So the original MakerBots to
produce parts, but they were
very, very rough course, you
know, half a millimeter resolution,
if you will, on the,
on the axis and with
the new electronics driving one
16th step, we, that automatically
gives us much, much finer
control over the motors and
positioning. And then the advent
of using 1.75 millimeter filament
allowed us to use much
smaller drive systems, as well
as to, to control the
filament faster. We can actually
do things that with the
modern settlements that we couldn't
do previously, for example, when
you move to the end
of a line and you
want to change layers, or
you want to move to
a second on the old
MakerBot cupcake, we had a
DC motor that would simply
stop spinning. And as the
head was moving, the heat,
the plastic that was in
the nozzle would kind of
drivel out and it would
leave a string filament between
the two parts. And you
would have to shave that
off with a modern setup.
We actually use a small
stepper motor to drive the
extruder instead. And with the,
with the stepper motor, we
can actually quickly reverse it
when we get to the
end of the line. And
that quick reversal will actually
suck the plastic that's in
the right, at the end
of the nozzle, back up
into the nozzle so that
it doesn't dribble out. And
then we move over to
the next part. And right
before we get to the
part, we start the nozzle
back up a little bit
earlier than we would have
normally. And that repopulates, that
nozzle with that melted plastic
so that when it starts
to extruded, it's definitely there.
And that, that made the
quality drastically improved. I mean,
just by incredible mounts, simply
by adding a little bit
of logic and a little
bit of more, you know,
a little bit more technology
there. And the nice thing
is, is this is a
very, very simple change that
now every single three D
printer out there that is,
you know, from the open
source community uses this exact
same technique. So that's interesting.
There's two, two questions there
that kind of came up
in my mind first is
there there's logic. So there
was a software change where
someone said, when you're moving
at a little, you know,
for lack of a better
word, a little body English
on it, put a little
spin on it and things
improved. And then there's also
the actual physical changes to
the device itself in the
improvements in the extruder and
in the motors, did, did
the stepper motor not exist
or was it just that
no one had ever gotten
around to saying, Oh, we
should use your stepper motor,
duh. You know, I, it
was the second one that
net promoters existed because that's,
we're using the exact stepper
motors that we used on
all the other axes, the
X, Y, and the Z
axis. They use the exact
same motor. It's just that,
for some reason, it was
never applied to the, the
extruder at that point. But,
but you're right, that, that
the software change was also
required. That that little bit
of English, I love that
term that you apply to
it, that's actually done, you
know, in the, the, the
software that actually calculates the,
the, what we call the
toolpath. So when you, when
you create a model, you
create it in a, you
know, a tool like AutoCAD
or Google SketchUp or something
like that. And then you
convert it into, what's known
as an S T L
file. And STL is a
stereo lithography file. It's basically
a file designed for three
D printers that then gets
what we call sliced slice
here. There's a couple of
different programs that do that,
but it's slices that, that
STL file up into the
layers. And then it calculates
the, the tool path that,
you know, the, the extrusion
motion over the build surface,
which generates all the logic
to, you know, that we
actually feed the printer itself.
And that tool has seen
some pretty drastic. And just
by itself, pretty drastic changes
just by itself. For example,
the, the original version used
a tool called ski forge.
And this, this scheme forge
tool would take quite a
while to process a, an
STL file into the appropriate
G-code. And it also pretty
course, you had to do
a lot of hand tuning
to get it, to work
now with a modern software.
There's a, there's a simpler
tool called slicer, and that
flasher tool, you, you really
just tell us that the
diameter of your nozzle, what
the material is and how
big your build area is,
and it calculates everything else
for you. And it works
incredibly quick. It's, it's about,
it's probably five to 10
times faster than, you know,
the old scheme forge engine
was W when I, when
I plug one of these
into my computer, am I
just plugging in this into
a USB port? And what
does it show up as
It actually just shows up
as a, a USB port
and with a serial it's
just a serial port to
the actual computer. We, we
do pretty much serial over
USB, and the software is
just looking for that virtual
serial port. So for example,
the, the default serial port
that I have on all
my machines is com three,
cause that's the last one
that's general. So this is
just like those old style,
you know, RS two 32
to USB adapters, you know,
I plug it in and
it says, Oh yeah, I've
got a serial port. So
I assume there's no driver
needed because those are virtual
serial ports are built into
windows. Now That's exactly right.
That is exactly the way
it works. That makes it
easy. It works consistently across
all offices. So for example,
the software that I use
to drive the ultra bought
is called pro interface, which
is a UI on top
of a couple other packages
like slicer. And there's a,
there's the actual calculation engine
that we call printer interface,
but those packages are they're
portable packages. So we, the
entire printer face package, for
example, will run on Mac
it'll run on Linux and
a run on windows with
no problem. You know, it's
just, just the install that
you want. In fact, the,
what I was doing yesterday
was I I've actually built
a, a package for iOS
and the Linux environments that
you could just, you know,
do a get out and
install it. So, so bear
with me as I try
an extended analogy here to
get my head around how
this works around 1989 or
1990, I was a try.
I was installing an Epson
FX, 80 dot matrix printer,
likely on two, I think
it was either a two
86 or something, and I
was running like paperclip or
some really old, or maybe
WordPerfect, but even before WordPerfect
okay, there was no concept
for printer driver. At that
point, you, you got a
spiral notebook fill of full
of codes and you installing
a printer meant that I
would sit there for, you
know, four to six hours
and type in codes to
say, here's the control code
to make bold. And here's
the control code to make,
you know, a Tallix and
you know, about a year
and a half after that,
of course, that became very
tedious. And then the, the
word processor itself would start
to support that printer. And
you just select it. So
basically the idea was rather
than the entering in all
the details, the, that got
moved upstream to the word
processor vendor, and then that
got moved upstream to the
printer vendor. And then that
got moved up to the
OS itself, kind of hearing
you say in the world
of three D printing, we
are going through that process.
This is not, We've pretty
much done that same process,
except that we didn't go
to the OS layer. We
have an abstract, we have
an abstracted out language called
G-code. Now that the idea
isn't just in the three
D world, it's actually all
CNC machines use this language.
It's a common language called
G-code and it's just handled
over serial. What is CNC?
Let's make sure we got
to make sure we explain
all of our acronyms for
our listeners. All CNC is
computer numerically controlled. So there's
mills and drill, you know,
router tables and, you know,
planting machines, there's all kinds
of machines that can be
automated with computers and that,
that language that they use
as a common language, and
it's called G code and
G code was developed, I
think literally way back in
the sixties, early seventies, and
pretty much every machine has,
has adopted that approach. The
G code platform itself, the
language itself is, is extensible.
So you might have a
generic version where you say,
move the X axis to
this location. And then there
might be a machine specific,
a code that says, okay,
turn the extruder on at
a temperature of 205 Celsius.
So there's, there's an there's
that patients for the different
machines, but there's a standardization
across most of the, you
know, the communications protocol and
everything else that goes with
it. And the way we
actually configure the software is
they basically tell it what
kind of a machine we
have. And the, the generic
form of three D printer
that we use is what
we call a five G
machine. So we use that
version of the protocol and,
and that's kind of built
into all the firmware of
the printers to understand that
version of the protocol, But
it seems like there's a
level of complexity for the
average user. Like, you know,
you described, you know, the
speed at which it goes
and how it talks to
the motor and all these
kinds of things. That would
be like me telling my
dot matrix printer, how fast
turn the paper and how
hot to make the ink
and how quickly to go
back and forth. That's, that's
not something that I think
my wife or my mom
or my dad would want
to do. Will that ever
be abstracted away entirely, or
will I always have, Actually
that is attracted away right
now. That's what the slicer
software actually does. You tell
it that you're printing with
abs and it knows which,
what temperatures to run the
extruder app for abs, and
it, you tell it how
big the filament that you're
using and how big the
novel is. And that's a
onetime setup. You know, that's
pretty much standard across the
machines. You're either using 1.7,
five or three millimeter filament,
and then it can calculate
everything else based off of
that. So, you know, it's
a one time setup you're
plugging in, you know, three
or four values and it's
configured for the machine. Oh,
okay. So this is cool.
So I'm, I'm sitting here
with, in my hand and
I'm looking at a adapter,
that's like a plastic adaptive.
You've seen these dongles that
you plug into your Mac
and they've got like VGA
on one side and something
else on the other side.
And it's got like a
nice plastic cover on both
sides. It's very smooth and
curved. And I, I'm trying
to kind of think to
myself, Oh, you know, I
could improve on this design.
I could change this. Could
I build something like that?
And would it, you know,
how close to this, this
polished Apple dongle, would it
look Well, it, you can
build something like that because
we are building things up
in layers. You are going
to see the layering effect
of it on, on most
of the surfaces. So if
you have a cube, there's
six surfaces, five of the
surfaces will have some kind
of texturing on the bottom
surface. The build plate is
very flat. So when you
extrude on it, it actually
will fill up any voids
and it will make that
surface incredibly smooth, but all
the other surfaces will have
some kind of texturing on
it because of the layering
and that layer, that texture
and the depth of that
texture. It's going to be
dependent on your novel, how
big your novel is the
finer, the nozzle, the higher,
the, you know, the higher,
the quality of the part,
if you will. But there
is a downside to that.
The higher quality parts actually
take a lot longer to
print because, you know, for
a 0.2, five millimeter extruder,
it's going to take four
times longer than a 0.5
millimeter extruder to extrude the
same diameter filament. So this
sounds like the kinds of
things with like draft mode
versus best versus photo paper
on my inkjet. Right? Do
I want it fast or
I want it good. Right.
And that's the trade off.
You have to make a,
with the nozzle selection that
you use. Now, that's not
saying you can't swap out
the nozzles, right? You can,
you can easily do that.
The other option is to
actually go with a printer
that has multiple extruders. There
are, these are actually coming,
you know, easily available. Now
I pull the latest MakerBot.
What they call the replicator
actually has two novels, you
know, from the factory. So
you can have two different
materials to different size nozzles,
two different colors. So you
can make parts with a
draft nozzle in it. And,
you know, a high end
novel, high quality nozzle. In
fact, the, the ultra bot,
this is actually breaking news
for everybody. The ultra VOD
actually was designed from the
ground up for being a
dual extrusion device. So it
actually has a support for
having two extruders built into
the unit. And you're ultra
bought. You can, people can
see this@ultra-bot.com yesterday, you launched
a Kickstarter and a few
hours later, you completely funded
your Kickstarter and you still
have a month to go
yup. Funded a hundred percent
funded and in less than
a day, that was awesome.
Yeah, it is cool. So
you've got a couple different
levels here. Help me understand
these levels. For example, I
see there's the people who
already have MakerBots can upgrade
for like $200, $300, but
at the lowest complete level,
you have a seven 99
level that gets you a
complete kit on assembled. Yeah.
The, of the seven 99
is the unassembled without the
heated build platform, which is
a great for using a
plastic called PLA or polylactic
acid, PLA is a plastic
that is made from corn
starch and sugar. And it
smells great when you make
parts with it. It's not
like you're cooking waffles. It's
actually friendly in the home
kind of, you know, plastic.
The, the next level up
from that is the a
hundred dollars more, which includes
the heated build plate. You
need the heated build plate.
If you're going to use
a plastic called abs abs
is the same plastic that
Legos are made out of
a very, very hard material.
The PLA turns is more
sugar like, well, it's a,
it's a, it's a more
brutal material, but it's harder.
But you know, under normal
use, you're not going to
break either one of them.
So they're, they're both incredibly
strong plastics and they're both
very, very easy to use
with a three D printer,
a hundred dollars gets you
the electronics, the, the heated
bill platform and the other
necessary upgrades actually support the
abs plastic. Okay. So I,
I misread that. I thought
that the one that says
this printer is not equipped
with the heated bill platform
meant that there was a
missing part and I could
not print right off the
bat. So I can't do
seven 99. I could print
something immediately, as soon as
I put the thing together.
Exactly. Yup. When you're using
TLA, the build surface, all
the only thing that I've
ever used for build suffers
for PLA simply blue painter's
tape. That happens to be
the best surface I've. I
mean, everybody in the community
has found for printing on
for using PLA it just
works beautifully, and it's very,
very inexpensive. So you've sold,
you've completely funded your Kickstarter,
but of these multiple levels,
the unassembled ready for PLA
ready for abs, and then
the fully assembled you're selling
ones, at least on Kickstarter
that are completely assembled and
include the, the build platform.
Why do you think people
are spending the extra money?
Well, I, I, to tell
you the truth, this is
I think the biggest miss
in the community out there
right now, and the fact
that having a fully assembled
unit for a reasonable cost
is a product that was
lacking. Most people do not
want to build their own
units. You know, they want
to just, just like you
don't go to a best
and buy an HP printer
on assembled, right. And you
buy it assemble. They want
to have the enjoyment immediately
when they take it out
of the box. And that's,
that's kind of the market
that I wanted to fulfill,
having a completely built unit
that was available for anybody
to use that, you know,
for somebody that aid, that
thought they didn't have the
time or the skills or
inner just the desire to
actually assemble the unit themselves.
The other thing that I
want to target is really
the education market. And that's
a, that's a market that,
you know, kind of like
what Apple did in the
early days they had, they
had units that were low
cost available to schools. This
is really where the big,
you know, the big advancements
are going to come from.
These kids are going to
see this technology, and they're
going to understand it, you
know, very, very early on
and incorporate it into their
lives. Just like we're seeing
today with computing, you know,
computing when you and I
were kids was, well, actually,
you're, you're a lot younger
than I am, but when
we were kids, you know,
competing didn't exist in the
home and, you know, then
along came the Apple one,
then the Apple twos and,
you know, machines like that,
that allowed us to tinker
and explore. We're really in
that phase right now with
three D printing, you know,
we have, we've got guys
that are building their own
printers and, you know, doing
that, and that's great, but
where are the Apple twos
of the world? That's where
we need to move. And
MakerBot kind of stepped into
that with our newest machine
where they, they sell their
machine only as a completely
assembled machine. And that's good,
but still, you know, kind
of out of reach for
a lot of people from
a price perspective. So their
machine is about $2,000. And
I, I thought, well, you
know, we could really provide
the same kind of thing
for a lot less. And,
you know, in my opinion,
make a better looking machine.
Cause in fact there's a
still wood. So, So, so
the, and there's lots of,
to be clear to people
there's lots and lots and
lots of different choices out
there and, you know, explore,
cause I'm sure that there
are other literally dozens of
different kinds of printers that
they could use, but yours
is a, is a improvement
and enhancement on the original
MakerBot. It is of your
own design that you kind
of inherits from the good
things and improves the things
you didn't like, but it's
effectively a, an advancement on
the MakerBot cupcake that allows
you to print much, much
larger stuff. Exactly. Yeah. And
you said it earlier. I
do not under, I mean,
there are a lot of
choices out there and you
know, if you're in the
market for a three D
printer and you want to
do a kid or you
want to do, you know,
you want to learn about
it. There are a lot
of great machines that are
a lot lower costs. I
mean, no, no kidding. There's
there's machines that you can
buy for four or $500.
Remember it's a four or
$500 machine in a kit
form. You're going to get
a lot more for your
money than a pre-assembled unit.
And, you know, that's, that's
going to show through, but
the idea is that, you
know, what I personally want
is I want the awareness
out there because I honestly
believe that three D printing
is, is simply going to
change the economics of the
future. You know, today we
have a supply chain that
stretches to, you know, as
far as China and central
China. And, you know, if
I want to buy a
comb, it's, for some reason,
it's cheaper for them to
produce that comb all the
way in China and ship
it all the way across
the oceans and warehouse. And
then these buildings and, you
know, do all this stuff
for me to, to go
buy this comb on for
99 cents, hanging on a rack
at a dollar store, you
know, that that's mind boggling
that things are that cheap,
but if we could eliminate
all of that other, you
know, other stuff in between
by using a device like
this, we could, we can,
for example, bring back manufacturing
to the U S and
make it, you know, you
know, get us back to
the point in the, in
the world economy where we
belong. You know, so for
example, the, that same comb,
if I wanted to print
a comb, in fact, if
the comb that I have
in my back pocket right
now is copy of the
old black unbreakable comb that
I printed on my printer.
It took maybe 15 minutes
at the most, and I
didn't have to go anywhere
to do it. It's made
out of abs plastic and
it works just the exact
same way as any other
comb I've ever had. Right.
And you didn't have to
draw, you didn't have to
get in your car and
drive to Walmart to do
it. That's fantastic. So people
can learn more about your
ultra bot@ultrahyphenbot.com. I'll add a
link in the show notes
for people to check it
out. And there's multiple videos
up there that will give
people an idea of how
it works, and they'll be
able to see it in
action and then talk to
you and leave comments and,
and learn about the, how
three D printing works. Yeah.
Yup. Fantastic. Well, thanks a
lot bill for taking the
time to talk to me.
Thank you so much, Scott.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.